
* opensfnovel01
  
** Last Updated
July 3rd, 2014

** Short Description 

An open-sourced science-fiction novel written by the community via the
snowflake top-down method.

** Goal of the Project

The goal of this project is to see if it's possible to create a
high-quality community-written science-fiction novel. It will be
written in stages via the [[http://www.advancedfictionwriting.com/articles/snowflake-method/][snowflake method]]. Each stage will be fully
completed before moving on to the next stage of the snowflake.

** Licensing of the Project

Licensing under the project shall be under the Creative Commons
CC-BY-SA license version 3.0. For further information, please see the
included LICENSE file in the repository. 

** Contributing to the Project

By contributing to the project, each contributor is licensing their
contributions under the same CC-BY-SA license version 3.0 as this main
project. All contributions must be entirely the contributor's original
work and not derived from any other source, even including public
domain information and shall require a typed statement to that effect.
Contributors shall not be anonymous to help enforce this.

** Planned Stages

This section discusses the planned progression of the project
according to the snowflake method. We are currently on the first
stage.

*** TODO Single Sentence Description of the Novel

Approximately 15-word sentence. No character names, think big picture. 

Each contributor shall have a set number of days to vote for their
favorite three main sentences without any particular order. The three
sentences that win the initial vote shall be subject to a runoff vote
with each contributor getting one vote. The winning sentence shall be
the basis for the novel and we'll move forward to the next stage.

*** TODO Expand the Single Sentence into a full paragraph of 5 sentences

Describe the story setup, three act structure and an ending. Think of
this like three disasters and an ending. Ideally, with the second and
third disasters caused by the protagonist's attempts to fix things.

*** TODO One-page Character Sheets on Main Characters

*** TODO Expand each sentence of prior paragraph into new 5 sentence paragraph

*** TODO Expand Character sheets for Main characters and synopses and one-pagers on minor characters

*** TODO Full Detail Synopsis, by expanding each sentence of prior into 5 sentences. 

*** TODO Use Synopsis to create sheet of scenes

*** TODO Organize Scenes into Proactive and Reactive

*** TODO Break Scenes down further
Proactive scenes broken down into Goal, Conflict, Setback.

Reactive scenes broken down into Reaction Dilemma Decision.

*** TODO Break Scenes down into Motivation Reaction Units

*** TODO Write Novel according to Motivation Reaction Units

*** TODO Technical Editing and Proofreading

*** TODO Beta Readers and Revisions

*** TODO Release Novel

*** TODO If Successful, Repeat!
